eg/README.md, before:

# Examples

These directories include example snippets for how to do various things with
RiveScript-Python.

## RiveScript Example

* [brain](brain/) - The standard default RiveScript brain (`.rive` files) that
  implements an Eliza-like bot with added triggers to demonstrate other features
  of RiveScript.

## Client Examples

* [json-server](json-server/) - A minimal Flask web server that makes a
  RiveScript bot available at a JSON POST endpoint.
* [twilio](twilio/) - An example that uses the Twilio SMS API to create a bot
  that can receive SMS text messages from users and reply to them using
  RiveScript.

## Code Snippets

* [js-objects](js-objects/) - Demonstrates adding JavaScript object macro
  support to RiveScript-Python. This example assumes a Python RiveScript bot is
  serving its responses via a web front-end, so that the JS macros are being
  executed in the user's browser via `<script>` tags.
* [perl-objects](perl-objects/) - Demonstrates adding Perl object macro support
  to RiveScript-Python. This works by running a Perl script, which uses the Perl
  version of RiveScript, and passing essential data about the object call into
  the Perl script and retrieving the output.

Commit message:

event callback support and example

eg/README.md, after:

# Examples

These directories include example snippets for how to do various things with
RiveScript-Python.

## RiveScript Example

* [brain](brain/) - The standard default RiveScript brain (`.rive` files) that
  implements an Eliza-like bot with added triggers to demonstrate other features
  of RiveScript.

## Client Examples

* [json-server](json-server/) - A minimal Flask web server that makes a
  RiveScript bot available at a JSON POST endpoint.
* [twilio](twilio/) - An example that uses the Twilio SMS API to create a bot
  that can receive SMS text messages from users and reply to them using
  RiveScript.
* [sessions](sessions/) - An example RiveScript bot which manages user session
  data using RiveScript event callbacks, assuming single user per bot instance
  scenario. Session continues when the script is run again (as it would happen
  if the script was a stateless webhook service for example).
  A simple JSON file-based data store is provided, but it's easy to implement
  database persistence by subclassing SessionStore class.

## Code Snippets

* [js-objects](js-objects/) - Demonstrates adding JavaScript object macro
  support to RiveScript-Python. This example assumes a Python RiveScript bot is
  serving its responses via a web front-end, so that the JS macros are being
  executed in the user's browser via `<script>` tags.
* [perl-objects](perl-objects/) - Demonstrates adding Perl object macro support
  to RiveScript-Python. This works by running a Perl script, which uses the Perl
  version of RiveScript, and passing essential data about the object call into
  the Perl script and retrieving the output.
